      Guangzhou (, also known as Canton, and less commonly as Kwangchow) is the capital and largest city of Guangdong province in South China. Located on the Pearl River, about  north-northwest of Hong Kong and  north of Macau, Guangzhou serves as an important national transportation hub and trading port. One of the five National Central Cities, it holds sub-provincial administrative status.  Guangzhou is the third largest Chinese city and the largest city in South Central China. In 2014 the citys administrative area was estimated to have a population of 14.08 million.  Some estimates place the population of the entire Pearl River Delta Mega City built-up area as high as 44 million including Guangzhous nine urban districts, Shenzhen (10.36 million), Dongguan (8.22 million), Zhongshan (3.12 million), most parts of Foshan (7.20 million), Jiangmen (1.82 million), Zhuhai (0.89 million) and Huyang County of Huizhou (0.76 million) adjoining Dongguan and Shenzhen, with an area of about .  History   Early history Guangzhous earliest recorded name is Panyu (), derived from two nearby mountains known as Pan and Yu in ancient times. Its recorded history begins with Chinas conquest of the area during the Qin dynasty. Panyu expanded when it became capital of the Nanyue Kingdom in 206 BC; the territory of Nanyue included what is now northern Vietnam.  The Han dynasty annexed the Nanyue Kingdom in 111 BC during the empires expansion southward, and Panyu became a provincial capital and remains so today. In 226 AD, Panyu became the seat of Guang Prefecture (; Guangzhou / ; Guangfu).  Although Guangzhou replaced Panyu as the name of the walled city, Panyu was still the name of the surrounding area until the end of Qing dynasty. Today, Panyu is a district of Guangzhou south of Haizhu District separated from the rest of the city by the Pearl River.  The Old Book of Tang described Guangzhou as important port in the south of China. In that period, direct routes connected the Middle East and China. A Chinese prisoner, who was captured in the Battle of Talas and stayed in what is now Iraq for twelve years, returned to China by ship on a direct route from Iraq to Guangzhou. Guangzhou was mentioned by various Muslim geographers in the ninth and tenth centuries, such as Al-Masudi and Ibn Khordadbeh. Guangzhou was known as Khanfu  by the Arabs. According to a local Guangzhou government report, the city was sacked by Muslims on October 30, 758. The Arab historian Abu Zayd as-Sirafi mentioned Guangzhou several times in his book The Journey of as-Sirafi (Arabic:), providing a description of daily life, food, business dealings, and the justice system of the city. As-Sirafi also reports that in 878 followers of the Chinese rebel leader Huang Chao besieged Guangzhou and massacred a large number of foreign merchants residing there. The foreign merchants were Arab Muslims, Persians, Jews and Christians  During the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period, Guangzhou was the capital of the Southern Han state which existed from 917 to 971, and was one of the most stable of the southern states. The region enjoyed considerable cultural and economic success in this period.  From the tenth to twelfth century, Persian women were to be found in Guangzhou. Multiple women originating from the Persian Gulf lived in Guangzhous foreign quarter. Some scholars did not differentiate between Persian and Arab, calling them both Dashi (), and some say that the Chinese called all women coming from the Persian Gulf Persian Women.  The Moroccan traveler Ibn Battuta visited Guangzhou in the 14th century in his journey around the world. He described the manufacturing process of large ships in the city.  During the Northern Song dynasty, the celebrated poet Su Shi (Shisu) visited Guangzhous Baozhuangyan Temple and wrote the inscription Liu Rong (Six Banyan Trees) because of the six banyan trees he saw there. It has since been called the Temple of the Six Banyan Trees.  The Portuguese were the first Europeans to arrive in Guangzhou by sea in 1514, establishing a monopoly on the external trade out of its harbour by 1517. They were later expelled from their settlements in Guangzhou (Canto in Portuguese), but instead were granted use of Macau as a trade base with the city in 1557. They would keep a near monopoly on foreign trade in the region until the arrival of the Dutch in the early 17th century.  17th through 19th centuries    It is believed that the romanisation Canton originated from the , which was transcribed from Guangdong (also pronounced Kanton in Japanese). Nevertheless, because at the time of the Portuguese arrival, the capital city had no specific appellation other than the provincial capital () by its people, the province name was adopted for the walled city by the Europeans. The etymology of Canton, as well as the similar pronunciation with the province name Guangdong, might have partly contributed to the recent confusion of Canton and Guangdong by certain English speakers.  In Guangzhou, the national monuments known as The Muslims Loyal Trio are the tombs of Ming-loyalist Muslims who were martyred while fighting in battle against the Qing in Guangzhou.  After China gained control of Taiwan in 1683, the Qing government became more open to foreign trade. Guangzhou quickly emerged as one of the most suitable ports for international trade and before long ships arrived from all over the world.  The Portuguese in Macau, the Spanish in Manila, Arabs from the Middle East and Muslims from India were already actively trading in the port by the 1690s, when the French and English began frequenting the port through the Canton System.  Other companies were soon to follow: the Ostend General India company in 1717; Dutch East India Company in 1729; the first Danish ship in 1731, which was followed by a Danish Asiatic Company ship in 1734; the Swedish East India Company in 1732; followed by an occasional Prussian and Trieste Company ship; the Americans in 1784; and the first ships from Australia in 1788.  By the middle of the 18th century, Guangzhou had emerged as one of the worlds great trading ports under the Thirteen Factories, which was a distinction it maintained until the outbreak of the First Opium War in 1839 and the opening of other ports in China in 1842. The privilege during this period made Guangzhou one of the top three cities in the world. During the war, the British captured Canton on March 18, 1841. The Second Battle of Canton was fought in May 1841.    From 1855 to 1867 there were a series of battles between the Punti and Hakka peoples known as the Punti-Hakka Clan Wars ().  The plague epidemicpart of the Third Pandemicreached Guangzhou in 1894, causing the death of 60,000 people in a few weeks. In 1918, the citys urban council was established and Guangzhou () became the official name of the city in Chinese. Panyu became a countrys name to the southern side of Guangzhou.  1930present Japanese troops occupied Guangzhou from October 21, 1938, to September 16, 1945, after bombing the city. The Imperial Japanese Army conducted bacteriological research in Guangzhou under Unit 8604, a section of Unit 731.  After the fall of the capital Nanjing in April 1949, the Nationalist government under the acting president Li Zongren relocated to Guangzhou.  Communist forces entered the city on October 14, 1949. The Nationalists blew up the Haizhu Bridge, an important passage across the Pearl River, in order to slow the Communist advance and allow the government to flee to Chongqing. The communist government soon renamed the citys English name to Guangzhou. A massive exodus followed as many fled to nearby Hong Kong and Macau, and the provincial capitals international status dwindled.  The urban renewal projects of the new communist government improved the lives of some residents. New housing on the shores of the Pearl River provided homes for the poor boat people. Reforms by Deng Xiaoping, who came to power in the late 1970s, led to rapid economic growth due to the citys close proximity to Hong Kong and access to the Pearl River.  As labour costs increased in Hong Kong and China liberalized its economy, manufacturers opened new plants in Guangdong, including Guangzhou. As the largest city in one of Chinas wealthiest provinces, Guangzhou attracts farmers from the countryside looking for factory work. Cantonese links to overseas Chinese and beneficial tax reforms in the 1990s contributed to the citys rapid growth.  In 2000, Huadu and Panyu were merged into Guangzhou as districts, and Conghua and Zengcheng became county-level cities of Guangzhou.  <gallery widths=200px heights=150px> File:Street view of Canton (Guangzhou).jpg|Street view of Canton (Guangzhou in 1860s) File:Canton1860.jpg|The map of Guangzhou in 1860 File:Plan of Canton.jpg|Plan of Canton (published 1910) File:Canton street scene, 1919.jpg|Street scene in Canton, 1919 File:1937 Canton, China VP8.webm|Canton, 1937 File:Canton City Government.jpg|Canton City Government </gallery>  Geography  Located in the south-central portion of Guangdong, Guangzhou spans from 112 57 to 114 03 E longitude and 22 26 to 23 56 N latitude. The city is part of the Pearl River Delta and the city centre is situated next to the Baiyun Mountain, which is locally referred to as the lung of the city (). The total area under the citys administration is .  The elevation of the prefecture generally increases from southwest to northeast, with mountains forming the backbone of the city, and the ocean comprising the front. Tiantang Peak (, meaning Peak of Paradise in Chinese), which stands  above sea level, is the highest mountain in Guangzhou.  Climate Located just south of the Tropic of Cancer, Guangzhou has a humid subtropical climate (Kppen Cfa) influenced by the East Asian monsoon. Summers are wet with high temperatures, high humidity, and a high heat index. Winters are mild and comparatively dry. Guangzhou has a lengthy monsoon season, spanning from April through September. Monthly averages range from  in January to  in July, while the annual mean is , the relative humidity is approximately 68 percent, whereas annual rainfall in the metropolitan area is over . With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 17 percent in March and April to 52 percent in November, the city receives 1,628 hours of bright sunshine annually, considerably less than nearby Shenzhen and Hong Kong. Extreme temperatures have ranged from  to .<ref name = Mherrera/> The last recorded snowfall in the city was in January 1893.    Administrative divisions    Guangzhou is a sub-provincial city. It has direct jurisdiction over eleven districts:    Recent administrative changes In 2000 the county-level cities of Panyu and Huadu were upgraded into districts.  In 2005 the districts of Dongshan and Fangcun were abolished and merged into Yuexiu and Liwan respectively; at the same time the district of Nansha was established out of parts of Panyu, and the district of Luogang was established out of parts of Baiyun, Tianhe, and Zengcheng, plus a part of Huangpu, making an exclave next to Huangpu.  In 2014, Luogang merged into Huangpu and both Conghua and Zengcheng county-level cities were upgraded into districts. After this adjustment, Guangzhou surpass Shenzhen as the most populated consolidated district-governed city in China.  Merger with Foshan In January 2009 the National Peoples Congress approved a development plan for the Pearl River Delta Region. On March 19, 2009 the Guangzhou Municipal Government and Foshan Municipal Government agreed to establish a framework to merge the two cities.  Significant buildings     * Guangdong Olympic Stadium * CITIC Plaza * Canton Tower * Guangzhou Opera House * Guangzhou TV Tower * Pearl River Tower * Guangzhou Circle Mansion * Guangzhou Twin Towers: ** West Tower/Guangzhou International Finance Center ** East Tower/The CTF Guangzhou   Economy   Guangzhou is the main manufacturing hub of the Pearl River Delta, one of mainland Chinas leading commercial and manufacturing regions. In 2013, the GDP reached 1542 billion (US$248 billion), per capita was 120,515 (US $19,459).  The China Import and Export Fair, also called the Canton Fair, is held every year in April and October by the Ministry of Trading. Inaugurated in the spring of 1957, the fair is a major event for the city. From the 104th session onwards, the fair moved to the new Pazhou complex, from the older Liuhua complex. All booths have been transferred to Pazhou complex, which is served by two stations on Metro Line 8. Also, since the 104th session, the Canton Fair has been arranged in three phases instead of two phases.  Industrial zones * Guangzhou Economic and Technological Development Zone * Guangzhou Nansha Export Processing Zone The zone was founded in 2005. Its total planned area is . It is located in Nansha District and it belongs to the provincial capital, Guangzhou. The major industries encouraged in the zone include auto-mobile assembly, biotechnology and heavy industry. It is situated 54 km (70 minutes drive) south of Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport and close to Nansha Port. It also has the advantage now of Guangzhou Metro line 4 which is currently being extended to Nansha Ferry Terminal * Guangzhou Free Trade Zone The zone was founded in 1992. It is located in the east of Huangpu District and located near to Guangzhou Economic and Technological Development Zone. It is situated very close to Guangzhou Baiyun Airport. The major industries encouraged in the zone include international trade, logistics, processing industry and computer software. Guangzhou is considered one of the most prosperous cities in China.  But due to rapid industrialization, it is also considered one of the most polluted cities.  Science City * Guangzhou Science City  Malls and pedestrian streets  * 101 Dynamics * Beijing Lu * China Plaza * Jiangnanxi * Liwan Plaza * Shangxiajiu * Teem Plaza * Victory Plaza * Wanguo Plaza * Zhengjia Square (Grandview Mall) * Wanda square * Happy Valley (Guangzhou)  Transportation      Public transport  Guangzhou Metro  When the first line of the Guangzhou Metro opened in 1997, Guangzhou was the fourth city in Mainland China to have an underground railway system, behind Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai. Currently the metro network is made up of nine lines, covering a total length of . A long term plan is to make the citys metro system expand to over  by 2020 with 15 lines in operation.  As of July 2014 the lines of Guangzhou Metro include: * Line 1: Guangzhou East Railway StationXilang Station * Line 2: Jiahewanggang StationGuangzhou South Railway Station * Line 3 ** South route: Tianhe Coach Terminal StationPanyu Square Station via Tiyu Xilu Station ** North route: Airport South StationTiyu Xilu Station * Line 4: Huangcun StationJinzhou Station * Line 5: Jiaokou StationWenchong Station * Line 6: Xunfenggang StationChangban Station * Line 8: Fenghuang Xincun StationWanshengwei Station * Guangfo Line: Xilang StationKuiqi Lu Station * APM: Linhexi StationCanton Tower Station  Buses, taxis and motorcycles  The Guangzhou Bus Rapid Transit (or GBRT) system which was introduced in 2010, is the worlds second largest Bus Rapid Transit system with 1,000,000  passenger trips daily and 26,900 pphpd during the peak hour (second only to the TransMilenio BRT system in Bogota). The system averages 1 bus every 10 seconds or 350 per hour in a single direction and contains the worlds longest BRT stationsaround  including bridges.  In 2009, it was reported that all 9,424 buses and 17,695 taxis in Guangzhou would be operating on LPG-fuel by 2010 to promote clean energy for transport and improve the environment ahead of the 2010 Asian Games which were held in the city. At present, Guangzhou is the city that uses the most LPG-fueled vehicles in the world, and at the end of 2006, 6,500 buses and 16,000 taxis were using LPG, taking up 85 percent of all buses and taxis.  Effective January 1, 2007, the municipal government has banned motorcycles in urban areas. Motorcycles found violating the ban will be confiscated. The Guangzhou traffic bureau claimed to have reported reduced traffic problems and accidents in the downtown area since the ban.  Air transport Guangzhous main airport is the Baiyun International Airport in Huadu District; it opened on August 5, 2004. This airport is the second busiest airport in terms of traffic movements in China. It replaced the old Baiyun International Airport, which was very close to the city centre and failed to meet the citys fast-growing air traffic demand.  Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport now has two runways, with three more planned to be built.  Railway transport  Guangzhou is the terminus of the BeijingGuangzhou, GuangzhouShenzhen, GuangzhouMaoming and GuangzhouMeizhouShantou conventional speed railways. In late 2009, the WuhanGuangzhou High-Speed Railway started service, with multiple unit trains covering  at a top speed of . In January 2011, the GuangzhouZhuhai Intercity Railway started service at an average speed of .  In December 2014, the GuiyangGuangzhou High-Speed Railway and Nanning-Guangzhou Railway began service with trains running at top speeds of  and , respectively.  Intercity transport to Hong Kong Guangzhou is well connected to Hong Kong by train, coach and ferry. The Guangdong Through Train departs from the Guangzhou East railway station and arrives at the Hung Hom KCR station in Kowloon, Hong Kong. The route is approximately  in length and the ride takes less than two hours. Frequent coach services are also provided with coaches departing every day from different locations (mostly major hotels) around the city.  River transport  There are daily high-speed catamaran services between Nansha Ferry Terminal and Lianhua Shan Ferry Terminal in Guangzhou and the Hong Kong China Ferry Terminal, as well as between Nansha Ferry Terminal and Macau Ferry Pier in Hong Kong.  Local products  * Canton Province Sculpture is legendary and includes Guangzhou Ivory Carvings, Jade Sculpture, Wood Sculpture and Olive Sculpture. * Cantonese Enamel includes Guangzhou Colorful Pottery. It has a history of over 300 years. * Cantonese Embroidery () is one of the Four Famous Chinese Embroideries together with Su Embroidery, Xiang Embroidery and Shu Embroidery. * Canton Province Bacon is the general designation of cured meat in the Guangzhou and surrounding areas. * Zhujiang Beer (Pearl River Beer)  Culture According to the official Peoples Daily newspaper, Cantonese is the first language for half of the 14 million residents of the provincial capital Guangzhou, while the other half speak mainly Mandarin. Other languages such as Hakka are spoken in significant numbers as well. The migrant population from other provinces of China in Guangzhou was 40 percent of the citys total population in 2008. Most of them are rural migrants and they speak Mandarin and other local dialects from their hometowns.  They have taken on many jobs that the locals are unwilling to do.  Guangzhou is also known to have a sizeable African population.  Significant components of the culture of Guangzhou include: * Cantonese * Cantonese cuisine * Cantonese opera * Cantonese people * Guangdong music (genre) * Guangzhou Opera House * Guangzhou Symphony Orchestra * Xiguan  Religions Buddhism is the most prominent religion.  A female medical missionary Dr. Mary H. Fulton (18541927) was sent by the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church in the United States with the idea of proselytizing has found the first medical college for women in China.  Known as the Hackett Medical College for Women (), this College was located in Guangzhou, China, and was enabled by a large donation from Mr. Edward A.K. Hackett (18511916) of Indiana, U.S.A.  The College was dedicated in 1902 and offered a four-year curriculum.  By 1915, there were more than 60 students, mostly in residence. Most students became Christians, due to the proselytizing influence of Dr. Fulton. The College was officially recognized, with its diplomas marked with the official stamp of the Guangdong provincial government.  The College was aimed at primarily spreading of Christianity and later for modern medicine and the elevation of Chinese womens social status.  The David Gregg Hospital for Women and Children, also known as Yuji Hospital () was affiliated with this College. The graduates of this College included Chau Lee-sun (, 1890-1979) and Wong Yuen-hing (), both of whom graduated in the late 1910s  and then practiced medicine in the hospitals in Guangdong province. At the end of 1932, the medical center involving the Hackett Medical College for Women and the David Gregg Hospital for Women and Children was put under the control of the Chinese government.  Furthermore, it affiliated with Guangzhou Hospital and Lingnan University to form the Sun Yat-Sen Medical College in 1936.  There are many sites significant to Islamic culture in Guangzhou including the Great Mosque of Guangzhou, Huaisheng Mosque, one of the oldest mosques in the world.  There are two versions of its origins. The first is that prior to 500, before the establishment of Islam, Arab seafarers had established trade relations with China, setting off from Basra at the tip of the Persian Gulf and from the town of Qays (Siraf) in the Persian Gulf. They sailed the Indian Ocean passing Sarandip (Sri Lanka) and navigated their way through the Straits of Malacca between the Sumatran and Malaysian peninsulas en route to the South China Sea. They established trading posts on the southeastern coastal ports of Quanzhou and Guangzhou. Some Arabs had already settled in China and probably embraced Islam when the first Muslim deputation arrived, as their families and friends back in Arabia had already embraced Islam during Muhammads revelation (61032). The other version is that the mosque was built by the uncle of the Prophet Muhammad in 627. There are many restaurants influenced by Islamic culture such as Hezhou Halal Restaurant,  Wuyang Humin Restaurant, and Maedah Restaurant. accordingly theres also a Muslim Hero Tomb In Guangzhou.  Yet Buddhism has remained the most influential religion in the life of Guangzhou people.  Guangzhou has a Jewish community, Guangzhou Buddhist Association, and Guangzhou Daoist Association. There is official pressure against underground, non-registered churches in Guangzhou.  Destinations  Eight Sights of Guangzhou   The Eight Sights of Guangzhou are the eight most famous tourist attractions listed by rulers in different ages. The following are those chosen through public appraisal and brought out in 2011. * Tayao Xincheng: Canton Tower, Chigang Pagoda, Haixinsha, Flower City Square, Twin Towers, CITIC Plaza, etc. * Zhushui Liuguang: Pearl River (segment from Baietan to Pazhou), Wharves, Baietan, Shamian Island, Yanjiang Lu, Ersha Island, Haixinsha, Guangzhou Convention and Exhibition Center, etc. * Yunshan Diecui: Baiyun Mountain, Yuntai Garden, etc. * Yuexiu Fenghua: Yuexiu Mountain, Zhenhai Tower, Five Rams Statue, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Monument, etc. * Guci Liufang: Chen Clan Academy and Guangdong Folk Craftwork Museum * Liwan Shengjing: Litchi Bay, Liwan Lake, Arcades on Enning Lu, Xiguan Residences, etc. * Kecheng Jinxiu: Guangzhou Science City * Shidi Changwan: Nansha Wetland Park  Parks and gardens * Baiyun Mountain, literally White Cloud Mountain * Yuexiu Park () * Peoples Park * Luhu Park () * Dongshanhu Park () * Liuhuahu Park () * Liwanhu Park () * Yuntai Garden () * Martyrs Park () * The Pearl River Park () * South China Botanical Garden  Tourist attractions Guangzhou has a humid, hot sub-tropical climate. The annual average temperature is . Autumn, from October to December, is very moderate, cool and windy, and is the best travel time. There are many tourist attractions around the city which include: * Xiguan * Chen Clan Academy or Chan Clan Ancestral Hall * Shamian Island or Shameen Island  * Guangdong Provincial Museum * Museum of the Mausoleum of the Nanyue King * Temple of the Six Banyan Trees * Sacred Heart Cathedral or Stone House * Huaisheng Mosque * Temple of Bright Filial Piety * Chime-Long Paradise * Chime-Long WaterPark () * Guangzhou Peasant Movement Institute * Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall    Media Guangzhou has two local radio stations: the provincial Radio Guangdong and the municipal Radio Guangzhou. Together they broadcast in more than a dozen channels. The primary language of both stations is Cantonese. Traditionally only one channel of Radio Guangdong is dedicated to Mandarin (Putonghua). However, in recent years there has been an increase of Mandarin programmes in most Cantonese channels. Radio stations from cities around Guangzhou mainly broadcast in Cantonese and can be received in different parts of the city, depending on the radio stations locations and transmission power. On the other hand, the Beijing-based China National Radio broadcasts Mandarin programmes in the city. Radio Guangdong also produces a 30-minute weekly English programme, Guangdong Today, which is broadcast globally through the WRN Broadcast. Daily English news programmes are also broadcast by Radio Guangdong.  Guangzhou has some of the best Chinese-language newspapers and magazines in mainland China, most of which are published by three major newspaper groups in the city. The Guangzhou Daily Press Group, Nanfang Press Corporation and Yangcheng Evening News Group dominate the newspaper market of the province. The two leading newspapers of the city are Guangzhou Daily and Southern Metropolis Daily. The former, with a circulation of 1.8 million, has been Chinas most successful newspaper for 14 years in terms of advertising revenue, while Southern Metropolis Daily is considered one of the most liberal newspapers in mainland China. In addition to Guangzhous Chinese-language publications, there are a few English magazines and newspapers, most notably thats PRD (formerly thats Guangzhou) which was started more than a decade ago and has since blossomed into one of Chinas leading expat magazines with issues in Beijing, Shanghai and formerly Suzhou, but also including the more recent In The Red magazine, which has been in circulation for a couple of years as of 2013.  Education   Higher educational institutes   Universities and colleges * Guangdong Institute of Science and Technology * Guangdong Pharmaceutical University * Guangdong Polytechnic Normal University () * Guangdong University of Business Studies * Guangdong University of Finance () * Guangdong University of Foreign Studies * Guangdong University of Technology * Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts * Guangzhou Medical College () * Guangzhou Sports University * Guangzhou University * Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine * Jinan University (founded in 1906) * South China Agricultural University (founded in 1909) * South China Normal University * South China University of Technology * Southern Medical University (founded in 1951) * Sun Yat-sen University (founded in 1924) * Xinghai Conservatory of Music * Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineering  Note: Institutes without full-time bachelor programs are not listed.  Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Centre Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Centre, also known as Guangzhou University Town, is a large tertiary education complex located in the southeast suburbs of Guangzhou. This huge higher education centre occupies the entire Xiaoguwei island in Panyu District, covering an area of about . It houses new campuses from ten higher education institutions. The whole Higher Education Mega Centre can eventually accommodate up to 200,000 students, 20,000 teachers and 50,000 staff.  Higher education institutions with campuses in the Mega Centre: * Guangdong Pharmaceutical University * Guangdong University of Foreign Studies * Guangdong University of Technology * Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts * Guangzhou University * Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine * South China Normal University * South China University of Technology * Sun Yat-sen University * Xinghai Conservatory of Music  Sports  In 2010, Guangzhou hosted the 16th Asian Games from November 12 to 27 and the first Asian Para Games from December 12 to 19, which were the largest sporting events the city ever hosted.  Guangzhou also hosted the following major sporting events: * 1987 The 6th National Games of the Peoples Republic of China * 1991 The 1st FIFA Womens World Cup * 2001 The 9th National Games of the Peoples Republic of China * 2007 The 8th National Traditional Games of Ethnic Minorities of the Peoples Republic of China * 2008 The 49th World Table Tennis Championships * 2009 The 11th Sudirman Cup: the world badminton mixed team championships  Current professional sports clubs based in Guangzhou include:   Guangzhou Evergrande F.C. Guangzhou Evergrande F.C. has risen in recent years to be a powerhouse in association football in the Peoples Republic of China, having won four consecutive national titles in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. The team also won the AFC Champions League in 2013. The club competed in the 2013 FIFA Club World Cup, where it lost 30 at the semi-final stage to 201213 UEFA Champions League winner FC Bayern Munich.  Household registration policy  Chinas system of household registration, also known as a hukou, restricts the ability of Chinese citizens to freely choose their place of residence and determines eligibility for education and other public benefits.  In May 2014, the municipal agencies in Guangzhou responsible for population control, human resources, social security, and civil affairs issued a notice to local state-run employment agencies and family planning centers. The notice stated that those legally employed in Guangzhou should be issued an individual hukou card that allows them to marry and obtain permission to have children instead of requiring them to return to their official place of residence. These rules apply to workers in all occupations. Reports in the Chinese media said about 100,000 were affected by these changes.  International relations   Twin towns  sister cities Guangzhou currently maintains sister city agreements with 23 international cities.   